# Changelog

## 0.5

### 0.5.0

**New Features**

- Add `TriangleMagnet` struct and its field function.

## 0.4

### 0.4.4

**Improvements**

- Add `from_iter` method to `SourceArray` and `ObserverArray`.

### 0.4.3

**Breaking Changes**

- Add Ellip's `BulirschConst<Self>` bound constraint to Magba's `Float` trait to allow true support of generic float type for cylinder field functions.

**Bug Fixes**

- Fix cylinder magnet field function failing to converge for f32.

### 0.4.2

**Bug Fixes**

- Add missing input validation for sensors.

**Testing**

- Add input validation tests.

### 0.4.1

**Bug Fixes**

- Implement missing transitive From for `SphereMagnet` -> `Magnet` -> `SourceComponent`.
- Implement missing `Sphere` variant of the `Magnet` enum.

### 0.4.0

**New Features**

- **`SphereMagnet`** Struct.
- **`currents` Module**: Magnetic sources generated by current-carrying conductors, encompassed by the `Current` enum, whose variants include `CircularCurrent`. All of the variants implement `Source` and can be integrated into the `SourceAssembly` and `SourceArray` systems.
- `compute_B_perp` for `LinearHallSensor`.

**Bug Fixes**

- Fix unimplemented Rayon parallelization in `impl_parallel_sum`.
- Fix double division in the diameter argument of `sum_multiple_cylinder_B`.
- Fix incorrect conversion between B and H.

**Performance**

- Optimize parallelization thresholds for field computation functions.

**Testing**

- Implement binary search for the parallelization thresholds.
- Add tests for `sum_multiple_*` functions.

## 0.3

### 0.3.0

#### BREAKING CHANGES

**Core Architecture**
- **Assembly Types:** Assembly holds a `Vec` of `Node` and handles both heap and stack-allocated items internally. For `SourceAssembly`, each node contains a `SourceComponent`. Likewise, the nodes of `SensorAssembly` hold `SensorComponent`. See the New Features section for more information about `Node` and the Component structs.
- **MultiSourceCollection Removed:** Use `SourceAssembly` which now supports nested and mixed types.
- **Field Trait Removed:** The `Field` trait is merged into the `Source` trait because the trait is redundant, and its name collides with nalgebra's `Field`.

**API Renames & Standardization**
- `compute_B` and `compute_B_batch`: The word "compute" suggests numerical evaluation rather than returning pre-computed values.
- `CylinderMagnet` accepts `diameter` instead of `radius`.
- `SourceAssembly`: Rename the methods `add` to `push` and `add_sources` to `extend`.

**Codebase Restructure**
- Remove the `util` module.
- `Transform` trait now indicates the ability to return `Pose` object.

**Feature Flag Reorganization**
- Available feature flags are `std`, `rayon`, `libm`, `unstable`. To install for `no_std` environments, you must also enable `libm`.

#### New Features

**Components Design**
- **Node Struct:** Assemblies now store `Node`, which holds the component's local position and the relative offset with respect to the collection's local coordinate, mitigating error accumulation during repeated transformations.
- **SourceComponent Enum:** The variants can be `Magnet`, `Assembly`, or `Custom`. Components can be grouped into `SourceAssembly`.
- **ObserverComponent Enum:** The variants can be `Sensor` or `Custom`. Likewise, they can be grouped into `ObserverAssembly`.
- **Magnet and Sensor Enums:** The variants are all structs defined in `magba::magnets` and `magba::sensors`, respectively.

**Stack Allocation**
- `SourceArray` and `ObserverArray`: A fixed-size, stack-allocated, homogeneous collection of `Source` and `Observer`, respectively.

**New Feature Flags**
- Add `no_std`, `libm`, and `alloc` feature flags.

**Sensors**
- `SensorOutput` for unified sensor output typing.
- **`magba::sensors::hall_effect`:** `LinearHallSensor`, `HallSwitch`, `HallLatch` and their corresponding read function in `magba::measurement`.

**Pose Struct**
- Introduce `Pose` struct to handle position/orientation logic centrally. `Source` delegates transformation logic here.

**Developer Experience**
- `sources!` and `observers!` macros for convenient declaration of composite Arrays and Assemblies.
- Most arguments now implement Into for automatic conversion from `std` types to `nalgebra` types.
- Add builder methods (`with_*`) to all magnet and collection structs.
- Add input validation for all constructors and setters.

#### Improvements

- **Field Computation:** Use Rust's fold idiom for LLVM auto-vectorization and Rayon's fold and reduce for better parallelization.
- **Dependency Upgrade:** Update `ellip`, the internal math backend, to v1.1.0, improving performance, removing BulirschConst constraint from `magba::Float`, and supporting `no_std`.
- **Dependency Upgrade:** Update `nalgebra` to v0.34.1.

**Documentations**
- Add `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` and `CONTRIBUTING.md`.
- Add testing documentation in `tests/`.
- Improve documentations.

**Testing**
- Add static tests and corresponding testing suite.
- Add `assert_close_vec!` macro for doctest.

## 0.2
### 0.2.0
**Breaking Changes**
- Functions will return bare values instead of `Result`.
- Removed `local_cyl_B_vec` as the parallelization is done at the level of global frame calculation.
- Change the function names in `field_cylinder` to cylinder instead of cyl and the argument name from `pol` to `polarization`.
- `magba::fields::conversion` submodule moved to `magba::conversion`. However, this will not affect legacy codes importing from
  `magba::conversion` as the submodule was re-exported there before.
- Core field computation functions in `fields::*` submodules are gated behind the `unstable` feature flag.

**New Features**
- Support both `f32` and `f64`.
- `fields::field_cuboid`: Computes magnetic field for cuboid magnets.
- `fields::field_dipole`: Computes magnetic field for magnetic dipole moments.
- `CuboidMagnet`: Struct for cuboid magnet.
- `Dipole`: Struct for magnetic dipole moment.
- Add `from_sources` method for `SourceCollection` and `MultiSourceCollection`.

**Improvements**
- Improve documentation.
- Update tests to use parameters that better reflect real-world scales (e.g, 1-cm magnet instead of 10-m magnet).
- Change the parallelization of `fields` calculation to the global frame step, increasing efficiency.
- Implement reasonable default value for sources instead of relying on deriving `Default` trait.

**Dependencies**
- Add `num-traits` and `numeric_literals` to support generic floats.
- Add `itertools` to assist development.
- Update dependencies.

## 0.1
### 0.1.1
**Improvements**
- Optimize performance and memory usage for non-parallel cylindrical magnetic field calculation.
- Improve the visual and performance of object display and debug formatting.
- Complete the documentation.
- Reduce crate size.

**Minor Changes**
- Add `util` module for library testing.
- Change doctests to relative error instead of exact equality.
- Use csv instead of sparse mtx for test data to reduce test data size and test time.
- Increase threshold for parallelization, likely will increase efficiency. 

**Dependencies**
- Use `getset` crate.
- Update dependencies.

### 0.1.0
**New Features**
- `fields::field_cylinder`: Computes magnetic field for cylindrical magnets.
- `CylinderMagnet`: Struct for cylindrical magnet.
- `SourceCollection`: Struct for homogeneous source collection.
- `MultiSourceCollection`: Struct for heterogeneous source collection.